README.md, before:

# DriftBuster

DriftBuster inspects configuration trees, recognises familiar formats, and
describes the differences so you can rein in infrastructure drift before it
becomes an outage.

Note: The primary experience is a .NET 8 Windows GUI backed by a shared
backend. The Python engine provides the detection core, offline runner, and
developer tooling used by the GUI and PowerShell module.

## Highlights

- **Precise format detection** – pluggable analyzers use bounded sampling to
  process large trees without overwhelming the collector.
- **Explainable results** – each hit includes format, variant, and the reason
  the detector fired so you can audit decisions instead of trusting a black box.
- **Profiles and hunt mode** – codify expectations, ignore volatile values, and
  alert when a snapshot slips outside your guardrails.
- **First-class diff reporting** – the `driftbuster.reporting` helpers produce
  JSON/text/HTML ready for hand-off or automation, with optional redaction.
- **Cross-platform UI** – the Avalonia desktop front-end ships alongside the
  Python engine for quick triage and demo flows.
 - **Windows Registry live scans** – enumerate apps, suggest likely registry
   roots, and search values by keyword/regex (see `docs/registry.md`).

## Requirements

- Python 3.12 or newer
- `dotnet` 8.0 SDK (only for the GUI or .NET build pipeline)

## Installation

Clone the repository and install the Python package in editable mode:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/techjoec/DriftBuster.git
cd DriftBuster
python -m pip install -e .
```

Install optional tooling used by the compliance workflow:

```sh
python -m pip install detect-secrets pip-licenses
```

## Quick Start

### Scan a directory

```sh
python -m driftbuster.cli fixtures/config --glob "*.config"
```

- Add `--json` to capture machine-readable results.
- Use `--max-sample` to override the default 128 KiB sampling window.
- Pass `--profile <path>` to apply a configuration profile while scanning.

### Export SQL snapshots

```sh
python -m driftbuster.cli export-sql fixtures/sqlite/sample.sqlite \
  --mask-column accounts.secret \
  --hash-column accounts.email \
  --placeholder "[MASK]" \
  --hash-salt pepper
```

- Multiple database paths are supported; each export is listed in `sql-manifest.json` with table counts and masking metadata.
- Use `--output-dir` to control the destination directory (defaults to `sql-exports/`).

### Use the library

```python
from driftbuster import scan_path, registry_summary

summary = registry_summary()
results = scan_path("fixtures/config")
```

`results` yields `ProfiledDetection` objects ready for further filtering,
diffing, or reporting.

### Launch the desktop preview

```sh
dotnet run --project gui/DriftBuster.Gui/DriftBuster.Gui.csproj
```

The GUI uses the shared .NET backend library to show hunts, diffs, and profile
mismatches interactively.

Tips:
- Use the header theme toggle to switch Dark/Light.
- Click “Check core” to verify backend health (status dot shows green/red).
- Primary actions are accent-filled; secondary are outline for quick scanning.

### Multi-server quickstart

- Start the GUI from the repo root: `dotnet run --project gui/DriftBuster.Gui/DriftBuster.Gui.csproj`.
- Switch to the Multi-server tab, enable the host slots you need, and add roots or pick scope chips. Drag host cards to reorder execution priority and turn on the session cache toggle if you want to reuse labels, filters, and layout next time (the snapshot is stored under your DriftBuster data root, e.g. `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/sessions/multi-server.json`).
- Click **Run all** to queue every active host. Use **Run missing only** for retries; toasts and the activity timeline record progress, warnings, and exports.
- Review the catalog filters, open drilldown diffs (including the inline **View drilldown** shortcut from the host summary), and export HTML/JSON snapshots (they land in `artifacts/exports/<config>-<timestamp>.{html,json}`).

Run the same plan from the shell:

```sh
python -m driftbuster.multi_server <<'JSON'
{
  "plans": [
    {
      "host_id": "server01",
      "label": "Baseline",
      "roots": ["samples/multi-server/server01"]
    },
    {
      "host_id": "server02",
      "label": "Drift sample",
      "roots": ["samples/multi-server/server02"]
    }
  ]
}
JSON
```

`driftbuster.multi_server` ships with the Python package; ensure you have installed the repo in editable mode (`python -m pip install -e .`). The CLI and GUI share an OS-specific data root (e.g. `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster`, `$XDG_DATA_HOME/DriftBuster`); set `DRIFTBUSTER_DATA_ROOT` to override where cached diffs live. See `docs/multi-server-demo.md` for annotated callouts, filter usage, and rerun tips.

### Python CLI stub (on hold)

The lightweight CLI stub remains paused, but packaging scripts now expose the
entry point for manual smoke checks. Install in editable mode and call the
console scripts:

```sh
python -m pip install -e .
driftbuster samples/config
driftbuster-export-sql fixtures/sqlite/sample.sqlite --output-dir exports
```

Current argument surface:

| Command | Arguments | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `driftbuster` | `PATH` | Scan a file or directory using detector defaults. |
| | `--glob PATTERN` | Restrict directory recursion (default `**/*`). |
| | `--sample-size BYTES` | Override detector sampling window. |
| | `--json` | Emit JSON lines instead of a table. |
| `driftbuster export-sql` | `DATABASE [DATABASE…]` | Export anonymised SQLite snapshots. |
| | `--output-dir PATH` | Destination for snapshots and manifest. |
| | `--table NAME` / `--exclude-table NAME` | Include/exclude specific tables. |
| | `--mask-column TABLE.COLUMN` | Replace sensitive values with placeholders. |
| | `--hash-column TABLE.COLUMN` | Deterministically hash column values. |
| | `--placeholder TEXT` | Placeholder text when masking columns. |
| | `--hash-salt TEXT` | Salt applied to hashed values. |
| | `--limit COUNT` | Cap exported rows per table. |
| | `--prefix TEXT` | Prefix generated snapshot filenames. |
| | `--manifest-name NAME` | Override manifest filename. |

### Release Build

- Python + .NET installer (default):
  - `python scripts/release_build.py --release-notes notes/releases/<semver>.md --installer-rid win-x64`
  - Installer artifacts: `artifacts/velopack/releases/<rid>`
- Portable GUI publish only: `python scripts/release_build.py --no-installer`

### Windows PowerShell module

```powershell
dotnet build gui/DriftBuster.Backend/DriftBuster.Backend.csproj
pwsh scripts/lint_powershell.ps1
Import-Module ./cli/DriftBuster.PowerShell/DriftBuster.psd1
Invoke-DriftBusterDiff -Versions 'fixtures/config/appsettings.json','fixtures/config/web.config'
Export-DriftBusterSqlSnapshot -Database fixtures/sqlite/sample.sqlite -MaskColumn accounts.secret -HashColumn accounts.email
```

The PowerShell module uses the shared `DriftBuster.Backend` library, giving the
CLI and GUI identical diff, hunt, and run-profile behaviour.

To publish a redistributable archive, run:

```powershell
dotnet build gui/DriftBuster.Backend/DriftBuster.Backend.csproj -c Release
pwsh ./scripts/package_powershell_module.ps1 -Configuration Release -SkipAnalyzer
Get-Content artifacts/powershell/releases/DriftBuster.PowerShell-<version>.zip.sha256
```

The script emits `DriftBuster.PowerShell-<version>.zip` and an accompanying `.sha256` file under `artifacts/powershell/releases/`; verify the checksum before distributing the module.

If importing the module reports `DriftBusterBackendMissing`, publish the backend
assembly and re-import:

```powershell
dotnet publish gui/DriftBuster.Backend/DriftBuster.Backend.csproj -c Debug -o gui/DriftBuster.Backend/bin/Debug/published
Import-Module ./cli/DriftBuster.PowerShell/DriftBuster.psd1 -Force
```

Copying the resulting `DriftBuster.Backend.dll` next to `DriftBuster.psm1` also
unblocks import when working from a published module archive.

## Key Concepts

- **Catalog (`src/driftbuster/catalog.py`)** – central listing of detection
  capabilities, metadata, and sampling rules.
- **Plugins (`src/driftbuster/formats/`)** – individual format detectors.
  Register new plugins with `driftbuster.formats.register`.
- **Profiles (`docs/configuration-profiles.md`)** – YAML definitions of expected
  values; use `driftbuster.profile_cli` to generate, diff, and apply them.
- **Hunt rules (`src/driftbuster/hunt.py`)** – skim snapshots for high-priority
  strings such as secrets or machine identifiers.

Check `docs/` for deeper dives:

- `docs/profile-usage.md` – practical walkthrough of profiles and hunts.
- `docs/format-support.md` – current detector coverage.
- `docs/customization.md` – configuration flags, sampling tweaks, and plugin
  lifecycles.
- `docs/testing-strategy.md` – how we validate detectors and reporting.
- `docs/multi-server-demo.md` – multi-server orchestration walkthrough covering GUI callouts, CLI parity, and troubleshooting.
- `docs/day0-baseline.md` – create a Day 0 baseline across many servers without an existing reference.
- `docs/DEMO.md` – GUI walkthrough using the bundled demo data.
- `docs/versioning.md` – component version workflow and sync tooling.
- `docs/registry.md` – Windows Registry live scan overview and API usage.

## Running Tests

```sh
dotnet test gui/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests.csproj --configuration Release --no-build
python -m pytest
```

Optional local checks:
- Secret scanning: `detect-secrets scan`
- License audit: `pip-licenses`

### Coverage Policy

- Maintain ≥ 90% line coverage for Python sources under `src/` and for the .NET
  surface (GUI + backend). Enforce locally with:
  - Python: `coverage run --source=src/driftbuster -m pytest -q && coverage report --fail-under=90`
  - .NET: `dotnet test -p:Threshold=90 -p:ThresholdType=line -p:ThresholdStat=total gui/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests.csproj`

### Coverage Enforcement

- Quick all-in-one: `./scripts/verify_coverage.sh`
  - Runs Python tests with `coverage report --fail-under=90`
  - Runs .NET tests with `-p:Threshold=90 -p:ThresholdType=line -p:ThresholdStat=total`
  - Prints a combined summary via `python -m scripts.coverage_report`

### Test Coverage

Two coverage surfaces exist: Python (engine, detectors, reporting) and .NET (GUI + backend).

- Python
  - Quick: `coverage run --source=src/driftbuster -m pytest -q && coverage report -m`
  - JSON: `coverage json -o coverage.json`
  - HTML (optional): `coverage html` → open `htmlcov/index.html`
- .NET GUI
  - Cobertura XML: `dotnet test gui/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests.csproj --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage" --results-directory artifacts/coverage-dotnet`
  - The XML lands under `artifacts/coverage-dotnet/<run-id>/coverage.cobertura.xml`.

Repo‑wide summary:

```sh
python -m scripts.coverage_report
```

### New Format Plugins

- Follow the checklist in `docs/plugin-test-checklist.md`.
- Add plugin tests under `tests/formats/` and keep the plugin module’s per-file coverage ≥ 90%.

This prints Python percent, .NET Cobertura percent, and the most under‑covered GUI classes to guide test additions.

## Project Layout

```
src/driftbuster/
├─ core/            # Detector orchestration, profiles, and diffing
├─ formats/         # Built-in format plugins
├─ reporting/       # Emit JSON/text/HTML reports
└─ …                # CLI entrypoints and hunt utilities

gui/                # Avalonia desktop app (C# / .NET 8)
tests/              # Python unit tests covering detectors and CLI
docs/               # Developer guides, roadmaps, and playbooks
scripts/            # Release helpers and capture tooling
```

## Contributing

1. Fork and branch from `main`.
2. Run the Python and .NET test suites before opening a pull request.
3. Document provenance in the PR template and update relevant guides.

See `CONTRIBUTING.md`, `docs/legal-safeguards.md`, and
`docs/reviewer-checklist.md` for detailed expectations.

## License

DriftBuster is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (`LICENSE`). Related legal
documents live in `NOTICE`, `CLA/INDIVIDUAL.md`, and `CLA/ENTITY.md`.

Commit message:

A18: Capture CLI readiness evidence
Task: task_e_68f9e7983cec83238457066c7d62f9f4 Turn: task_e_68f9e7983cec83238457066c7d62f9f4~assttrn_e_68f9e798eb4c8323b6fd7f65654d69b8

- Completed packaging checklist documentation for the paused Python CLI.
- Added CLI readiness plan note with validation walkthroughs and decision log.
- Captured detector, JSON, SQL, diff, and HTML transcripts under artifacts/cli-plan/.
- Updated README CLI stub section with planned flags and pointers to readiness plan.
- Marked CLOUDTASKS A18 subtasks complete and enabled repo tracking for cli-plan artifacts.

README.md, after:

# DriftBuster

DriftBuster inspects configuration trees, recognises familiar formats, and
describes the differences so you can rein in infrastructure drift before it
becomes an outage.

Note: The primary experience is a .NET 8 Windows GUI backed by a shared
backend. The Python engine provides the detection core, offline runner, and
developer tooling used by the GUI and PowerShell module.

## Highlights

- **Precise format detection** – pluggable analyzers use bounded sampling to
  process large trees without overwhelming the collector.
- **Explainable results** – each hit includes format, variant, and the reason
  the detector fired so you can audit decisions instead of trusting a black box.
- **Profiles and hunt mode** – codify expectations, ignore volatile values, and
  alert when a snapshot slips outside your guardrails.
- **First-class diff reporting** – the `driftbuster.reporting` helpers produce
  JSON/text/HTML ready for hand-off or automation, with optional redaction.
- **Cross-platform UI** – the Avalonia desktop front-end ships alongside the
  Python engine for quick triage and demo flows.
 - **Windows Registry live scans** – enumerate apps, suggest likely registry
   roots, and search values by keyword/regex (see `docs/registry.md`).

## Requirements

- Python 3.12 or newer
- `dotnet` 8.0 SDK (only for the GUI or .NET build pipeline)

## Installation

Clone the repository and install the Python package in editable mode:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/techjoec/DriftBuster.git
cd DriftBuster
python -m pip install -e .
```

Install optional tooling used by the compliance workflow:

```sh
python -m pip install detect-secrets pip-licenses
```

## Quick Start

### Scan a directory

```sh
python -m driftbuster.cli fixtures/config --glob "*.config"
```

- Add `--json` to capture machine-readable results.
- Use `--max-sample` to override the default 128 KiB sampling window.
- Pass `--profile <path>` to apply a configuration profile while scanning.

### Export SQL snapshots

```sh
python -m driftbuster.cli export-sql fixtures/sqlite/sample.sqlite \
  --mask-column accounts.secret \
  --hash-column accounts.email \
  --placeholder "[MASK]" \
  --hash-salt pepper
```

- Multiple database paths are supported; each export is listed in `sql-manifest.json` with table counts and masking metadata.
- Use `--output-dir` to control the destination directory (defaults to `sql-exports/`).

### Use the library

```python
from driftbuster import scan_path, registry_summary

summary = registry_summary()
results = scan_path("fixtures/config")
```

`results` yields `ProfiledDetection` objects ready for further filtering,
diffing, or reporting.

### Launch the desktop preview

```sh
dotnet run --project gui/DriftBuster.Gui/DriftBuster.Gui.csproj
```

The GUI uses the shared .NET backend library to show hunts, diffs, and profile
mismatches interactively.

Tips:
- Use the header theme toggle to switch Dark/Light.
- Click “Check core” to verify backend health (status dot shows green/red).
- Primary actions are accent-filled; secondary are outline for quick scanning.

### Multi-server quickstart

- Start the GUI from the repo root: `dotnet run --project gui/DriftBuster.Gui/DriftBuster.Gui.csproj`.
- Switch to the Multi-server tab, enable the host slots you need, and add roots or pick scope chips. Drag host cards to reorder execution priority and turn on the session cache toggle if you want to reuse labels, filters, and layout next time (the snapshot is stored under your DriftBuster data root, e.g. `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/sessions/multi-server.json`).
- Click **Run all** to queue every active host. Use **Run missing only** for retries; toasts and the activity timeline record progress, warnings, and exports.
- Review the catalog filters, open drilldown diffs (including the inline **View drilldown** shortcut from the host summary), and export HTML/JSON snapshots (they land in `artifacts/exports/<config>-<timestamp>.{html,json}`).

Run the same plan from the shell:

```sh
python -m driftbuster.multi_server <<'JSON'
{
  "plans": [
    {
      "host_id": "server01",
      "label": "Baseline",
      "roots": ["samples/multi-server/server01"]
    },
    {
      "host_id": "server02",
      "label": "Drift sample",
      "roots": ["samples/multi-server/server02"]
    }
  ]
}
JSON
```

`driftbuster.multi_server` ships with the Python package; ensure you have installed the repo in editable mode (`python -m pip install -e .`). The CLI and GUI share an OS-specific data root (e.g. `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster`, `$XDG_DATA_HOME/DriftBuster`); set `DRIFTBUSTER_DATA_ROOT` to override where cached diffs live. See `docs/multi-server-demo.md` for annotated callouts, filter usage, and rerun tips.

### Python CLI stub (on hold)

The lightweight CLI stub remains paused. Packaging prerequisites and manual
validation drills live in `notes/status/cli-plan.md`; use that plan when the
CLI workstream resumes. Until then you can rehearse the entry points locally by
installing the project in editable mode and invoking the console scripts:

```sh
python -m pip install -e .
driftbuster samples/config
driftbuster-export-sql fixtures/sqlite/sample.sqlite --output-dir exports
```

Current argument surface (captured in `artifacts/cli-plan/README.md` alongside
expected outputs):

| Command | Arguments | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `driftbuster` | `PATH` | Scan a file or directory using detector defaults. |
| | `--glob PATTERN` | Restrict directory recursion (default `**/*`). |
| | `--sample-size BYTES` | Override detector sampling window. |
| | `--json` | Emit JSON lines instead of a table. |
| | `--min-confidence VALUE` *(planned)* | Filter matches below the configured confidence floor. |
| `driftbuster export-sql` | `DATABASE [DATABASE…]` | Export anonymised SQLite snapshots. |
| | `--output-dir PATH` | Destination for snapshots and manifest. |
| | `--table NAME` / `--exclude-table NAME` | Include/exclude specific tables. |
| | `--mask-column TABLE.COLUMN` | Replace sensitive values with placeholders. |
| | `--hash-column TABLE.COLUMN` | Deterministically hash column values. |
| | `--placeholder TEXT` | Placeholder text when masking columns. |
| | `--hash-salt TEXT` | Salt applied to hashed values. |
| | `--limit COUNT` | Cap exported rows per table. |
| | `--prefix TEXT` | Prefix generated snapshot filenames. |
| | `--manifest-name NAME` | Override manifest filename. |
| | `--no-progress` *(planned)* | Suppress progress indicators once implemented. |

### Release Build

- Python + .NET installer (default):
  - `python scripts/release_build.py --release-notes notes/releases/<semver>.md --installer-rid win-x64`
  - Installer artifacts: `artifacts/velopack/releases/<rid>`
- Portable GUI publish only: `python scripts/release_build.py --no-installer`

### Windows PowerShell module

```powershell
dotnet build gui/DriftBuster.Backend/DriftBuster.Backend.csproj
pwsh scripts/lint_powershell.ps1
Import-Module ./cli/DriftBuster.PowerShell/DriftBuster.psd1
Invoke-DriftBusterDiff -Versions 'fixtures/config/appsettings.json','fixtures/config/web.config'
Export-DriftBusterSqlSnapshot -Database fixtures/sqlite/sample.sqlite -MaskColumn accounts.secret -HashColumn accounts.email
```

The PowerShell module uses the shared `DriftBuster.Backend` library, giving the
CLI and GUI identical diff, hunt, and run-profile behaviour.

To publish a redistributable archive, run:

```powershell
dotnet build gui/DriftBuster.Backend/DriftBuster.Backend.csproj -c Release
pwsh ./scripts/package_powershell_module.ps1 -Configuration Release -SkipAnalyzer
Get-Content artifacts/powershell/releases/DriftBuster.PowerShell-<version>.zip.sha256
```

The script emits `DriftBuster.PowerShell-<version>.zip` and an accompanying `.sha256` file under `artifacts/powershell/releases/`; verify the checksum before distributing the module.

If importing the module reports `DriftBusterBackendMissing`, publish the backend
assembly and re-import:

```powershell
dotnet publish gui/DriftBuster.Backend/DriftBuster.Backend.csproj -c Debug -o gui/DriftBuster.Backend/bin/Debug/published
Import-Module ./cli/DriftBuster.PowerShell/DriftBuster.psd1 -Force
```

Copying the resulting `DriftBuster.Backend.dll` next to `DriftBuster.psm1` also
unblocks import when working from a published module archive.

## Key Concepts

- **Catalog (`src/driftbuster/catalog.py`)** – central listing of detection
  capabilities, metadata, and sampling rules.
- **Plugins (`src/driftbuster/formats/`)** – individual format detectors.
  Register new plugins with `driftbuster.formats.register`.
- **Profiles (`docs/configuration-profiles.md`)** – YAML definitions of expected
  values; use `driftbuster.profile_cli` to generate, diff, and apply them.
- **Hunt rules (`src/driftbuster/hunt.py`)** – skim snapshots for high-priority
  strings such as secrets or machine identifiers.

Check `docs/` for deeper dives:

- `docs/profile-usage.md` – practical walkthrough of profiles and hunts.
- `docs/format-support.md` – current detector coverage.
- `docs/customization.md` – configuration flags, sampling tweaks, and plugin
  lifecycles.
- `docs/testing-strategy.md` – how we validate detectors and reporting.
- `docs/multi-server-demo.md` – multi-server orchestration walkthrough covering GUI callouts, CLI parity, and troubleshooting.
- `docs/day0-baseline.md` – create a Day 0 baseline across many servers without an existing reference.
- `docs/DEMO.md` – GUI walkthrough using the bundled demo data.
- `docs/versioning.md` – component version workflow and sync tooling.
- `docs/registry.md` – Windows Registry live scan overview and API usage.

## Running Tests

```sh
dotnet test gui/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests.csproj --configuration Release --no-build
python -m pytest
```

Optional local checks:
- Secret scanning: `detect-secrets scan`
- License audit: `pip-licenses`

### Coverage Policy

- Maintain ≥ 90% line coverage for Python sources under `src/` and for the .NET
  surface (GUI + backend). Enforce locally with:
  - Python: `coverage run --source=src/driftbuster -m pytest -q && coverage report --fail-under=90`
  - .NET: `dotnet test -p:Threshold=90 -p:ThresholdType=line -p:ThresholdStat=total gui/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests.csproj`

### Coverage Enforcement

- Quick all-in-one: `./scripts/verify_coverage.sh`
  - Runs Python tests with `coverage report --fail-under=90`
  - Runs .NET tests with `-p:Threshold=90 -p:ThresholdType=line -p:ThresholdStat=total`
  - Prints a combined summary via `python -m scripts.coverage_report`

### Test Coverage

Two coverage surfaces exist: Python (engine, detectors, reporting) and .NET (GUI + backend).

- Python
  - Quick: `coverage run --source=src/driftbuster -m pytest -q && coverage report -m`
  - JSON: `coverage json -o coverage.json`
  - HTML (optional): `coverage html` → open `htmlcov/index.html`
- .NET GUI
  - Cobertura XML: `dotnet test gui/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests/DriftBuster.Gui.Tests.csproj --collect:"XPlat Code Coverage" --results-directory artifacts/coverage-dotnet`
  - The XML lands under `artifacts/coverage-dotnet/<run-id>/coverage.cobertura.xml`.

Repo‑wide summary:

```sh
python -m scripts.coverage_report
```

### New Format Plugins

- Follow the checklist in `docs/plugin-test-checklist.md`.
- Add plugin tests under `tests/formats/` and keep the plugin module’s per-file coverage ≥ 90%.

This prints Python percent, .NET Cobertura percent, and the most under‑covered GUI classes to guide test additions.

## Project Layout

```
src/driftbuster/
├─ core/            # Detector orchestration, profiles, and diffing
├─ formats/         # Built-in format plugins
├─ reporting/       # Emit JSON/text/HTML reports
└─ …                # CLI entrypoints and hunt utilities

gui/                # Avalonia desktop app (C# / .NET 8)
tests/              # Python unit tests covering detectors and CLI
docs/               # Developer guides, roadmaps, and playbooks
scripts/            # Release helpers and capture tooling
```

## Contributing

1. Fork and branch from `main`.
2. Run the Python and .NET test suites before opening a pull request.
3. Document provenance in the PR template and update relevant guides.

See `CONTRIBUTING.md`, `docs/legal-safeguards.md`, and
`docs/reviewer-checklist.md` for detailed expectations.

## License

DriftBuster is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (`LICENSE`). Related legal
documents live in `NOTICE`, `CLA/INDIVIDUAL.md`, and `CLA/ENTITY.md`.
