notes/checklists/capture.md, before:

# Capture pipeline checklist

- **Prepare environment:**
  - Collect redaction tokens before running the capture script. Store them in a
    secure shell history-free session.
  - Confirm the target directory is accessible and does not contain prior
    snapshots that should be retained.
- **Run snapshot:**
  - Execute the manual helper with explicit metadata:

    ```bash
    python scripts/capture.py run /path/to/configs \
      --profiles profiles.json \
      --environment staging \
      --operator "analyst@example" \
      --reason "weekly review" \
      --mask-token "secret-token" \
      --mask-token "api-key"
    ```
  - If profiles are not required, omit `--profiles` and the script will still
    record detections + hunts.
  - Runs that truly cannot use masking must append `--allow-unmasked` to bypass
    the guard (log the justification in the legal notes).
- **Inspect manifest:**
  - Open `<capture-id>-manifest.json` and log the detection count, hunt hit
    count, and the recorded durations.
  - Verify that `mask_token_count` reflects the number of tokens supplied and
    that `total_redactions` is non-zero when masking is expected.
  - Record the manifest path plus capture ID in the legal review notes.
- **Review snapshot:**
  - Confirm `relative_path` entries resolve correctly from the capture root.
  - Ensure hunt hits that should map to approved tokens list the expected
    `token_name`; investigate any unexpected entries before proceeding.
  - Keep the snapshot in the restricted storage location defined in
    `CLOUDTASKS.md` (see areas A10-A12).
  - Capture any tooling gaps or repetitive manual steps and log them in the
    automation backlog tracker for future improvements.
- **Comparison step:**
  - Use the same capture ID when diffing successive runs:

    ```bash
    python scripts/capture.py compare captures/prev-snapshot.json captures/current-snapshot.json
    ```
  - Log added, removed, and changed detection keys along with token deltas in
    the manual audit notes.
- **Cleanup:**
  - When the review closes, purge the snapshot and manifest together and note
    the deletion time in the legal log.

Commit message:

A11: tighten capture manifest workflow
Task: task_e_68fbf9ccf3188323a9d8d83213193362 Turn: task_e_68fbf9ccf3188323a9d8d83213193362~assttrn_e_68fbf9cdb038832385224d98533f46d7

- Documented capture snapshot and manifest schemas in `scripts/capture.py`, introducing helpers and a schema version field.
- Enforced operator, environment, and reason metadata requirements with friendly guardrails.
- Updated capture checklist guidance to cover schema version verification and operator resolution.
- Added reporting checklist cleanup notes for removing paired capture artefacts with schema validation.
- Extended testing strategy guidance to note the mandatory metadata flags for capture rehearsals.

notes/checklists/capture.md, after:

# Capture pipeline checklist

- **Prepare environment:**
  - Collect redaction tokens before running the capture script. Store them in a
    secure shell history-free session.
  - Confirm the target directory is accessible and does not contain prior
    snapshots that should be retained.
- **Run snapshot:**
  - Execute the manual helper with explicit metadata (the script now requires
    `--environment` and `--reason`, and resolves the operator from
    `--operator`, `DRIFTBUSTER_CAPTURE_OPERATOR`, or the shell `USER`).
  
    ```bash
    python scripts/capture.py run /path/to/configs \
      --profiles profiles.json \
      --environment staging \
      --operator "analyst@example" \
      --reason "weekly review" \
      --mask-token "secret-token" \
      --mask-token "api-key"
    ```
  - If profiles are not required, omit `--profiles` and the script will still
    record detections + hunts.
  - Runs that truly cannot use masking must append `--allow-unmasked` to bypass
    the guard (log the justification in the legal notes).
- **Inspect manifest:**
  - Open `<capture-id>-manifest.json` and log the detection count, hunt hit
    count, the recorded durations, and confirm the `schema_version` field is
    present.
  - Verify that the mirrored `capture` metadata retains the environment,
    operator, reason, and root expected for the run.
  - Confirm `mask_token_count` reflects the number of tokens supplied and that
    `total_redactions` is non-zero when masking is expected.
  - Record the manifest path plus capture ID in the legal review notes.
- **Review snapshot:**
  - Confirm `relative_path` entries resolve correctly from the capture root.
  - Ensure hunt hits that should map to approved tokens list the expected
    `token_name`; investigate any unexpected entries before proceeding.
  - Keep the snapshot in the restricted storage location defined in
    `CLOUDTASKS.md` (see areas A10-A12).
  - Capture any tooling gaps or repetitive manual steps and log them in the
    automation backlog tracker for future improvements.
- **Comparison step:**
  - Use the same capture ID when diffing successive runs:

    ```bash
    python scripts/capture.py compare captures/prev-snapshot.json captures/current-snapshot.json
    ```
  - Log added, removed, and changed detection keys along with token deltas in
    the manual audit notes.
- **Cleanup:**
  - When the review closes, purge the snapshot and manifest together (they
    share the capture ID and `schema_version`) and note the deletion time in the
    legal log.
