docs/multi-server-demo.md, before:

## Multi-Server Orchestration Walkthrough

The multi-server flow configures up to six hosts, shares progress with live toasts, and produces catalog/drilldown exports without leaving the GUI. This guide walks through the end-to-end experience using the bundled sample data plus equivalent CLI commands so you can automate the same orchestration.

### Scenario Overview

- Demo dataset: `samples/multi-server/`
- Hosts: `server01` … `server06` (feel free to add more copies)
- Roots: each server folder acts as an independent root
- Baseline: `server01` ships with the expected config snapshot

### 1. Configure Hosts in the GUI

Open the desktop preview (`dotnet run --project gui/DriftBuster.Gui/DriftBuster.Gui.csproj`) and switch to the **Multi-server** tab. Each slot can point at a different root, baseline, and scope.

```
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Multi-server Tab                                                  |
|                                                                   |
| [1] Host cards      [2] Scope chips         [3] Roots list        |
|     ┌─────────┐         ┌───────────────┐      ┌───────────────┐ |
|     │ Label   │         │ Baseline ▶︎  │      │ C:\programs  │ |
|     │ Toggle  │         │ Custom ▲     │      │ D:\configs    │ |
|     └─────────┘         └───────────────┘      └───────────────┘ |
|                                                                   |
| [4] Session cache toggle     [5] Guidance footer + Run buttons   |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

Callout notes:
- **[1] Host cards** – enable a slot, edit the label, and pick a baseline preference for reruns.
- **[2] Scope chips** – switch between predefined scopes (e.g., `Program Files`, `AppData`) or stay with custom roots.
- **[3] Roots list** – add, remove, or reorder roots. Inline badges show `pending`, `ok`, or `error` as validation completes, and you can drag any host card to reorder the execution priority; baseline preference updates automatically.
- **[4] Session cache toggle** – opt-in to save labels, scopes, root order, catalog filters, timeline state, and the last active tab into your DriftBuster data root (for example `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/sessions/multi-server.json`, `$XDG_DATA_HOME/DriftBuster/sessions/...`) when you click **Save session**.
- **[5] Guidance footer** – explains why a scan is blocked (missing roots, failed validation) and surfaces **Run all** and **Run missing only** actions.

### 2. Launch and Monitor a Scan

- Click **Run all** once every active host shows a green root badge. The inline **View drilldown** button in the execution summary lets you jump straight from a host status row to the latest drilldown entry for that host.
- Progress appears next to each host. Statuses cycle through `queued`, `running`, `succeeded`, `failed`, or `skipped`.
- Toasts summarize completed runs, permission warnings, and retry hints. Open the activity timeline on the right to view a durable log of root changes, exports, and reruns.
- Successful results are cached by `(host, root, config)` so rerunning only missing hosts is instant; the view reuses existing catalog entries while new work finishes.

### 3. Explore Results

1. **Results catalog** – shows coverage counts, drift totals, and color-tagged severity per config. Use the filter tray for coverage/severity/type, or search by config name.
2. **Drilldown** – select a catalog entry to open side-by-side and unified diffs. Toggle servers on/off from the checklist to compare subsets. Export HTML/JSON snapshots with the inline buttons.
3. **Selective reruns** – the catalog’s **Re-scan affected servers** button issues targeted plans so you can validate fresh drift without losing context.

### 3a. Persist and Restore a Session

1. Click **Save session** once every host has completed at least one run. The snapshot writes to `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/sessions/multi-server.json` (or `$XDG_DATA_HOME/DriftBuster/sessions/...` on non-Windows hosts) using the awaitable cache service introduced in `SessionCacheService`.
2. Close the GUI and relaunch it with `dotnet run --project gui/DriftBuster.Gui/DriftBuster.Gui.csproj`. The multi-server tab will repopulate host labels, scopes, root ordering, baseline preferences, catalog filters, the last selected drilldown host, and the active timeline filter.
3. Validate that Inter-font dependent controls (catalog headers, guidance footer text) render correctly. The headless bootstrapper now preloads `fonts:SystemFonts` so even Release builds hydrate the alias dictionary before multi-server views instantiate.
4. Trigger a rerun from the restored session. Cached hosts immediately report **succeeded** while the activity timeline records a **Loaded saved session** success entry ("Restored _n_ servers.") before fresh run telemetry lands for any hosts that require new work.

### 4. CLI Parity

The GUI invokes `python -m driftbuster.multi_server` with a JSON request over stdin. Try the same flow from the repo root:

```sh
python -m driftbuster.multi_server <<'JSON'
{
  "plans": [
    {
      "host_id": "server01",
      "label": "Baseline",
      "scope": "custom_roots",
      "roots": ["samples/multi-server/server01"],
      "baseline": {"is_preferred": true, "priority": 1},
      "export": {"include_catalog": true, "include_drilldown": true}
    },
    {
      "host_id": "server02",
      "label": "Drift sample",
      "scope": "custom_roots",
      "roots": ["samples/multi-server/server02"]
    }
  ]
}
JSON
```

- Progress messages stream as JSON objects with `type: "progress"`. Pipe the output through `jq` to watch updates: `python -m driftbuster.multi_server <<<"…" | jq`.
- Omit `cache_dir` to let the CLI use the same data root as the GUI. Set `DRIFTBUSTER_DATA_ROOT=/custom/path` to override where cached diffs and sessions are stored.
- To rerun only missing hosts, send a smaller plan containing the failed host IDs; cached hosts can be left out.
- Export helpers write HTML/JSON to `artifacts/exports/<config>-<timestamp>.{html,json}`. Combine with `python -m scripts.coverage_report` to summarise multi-host metrics after a batch.

### 5. Optional Single-Host CLI Recipes

- Detect and classify formats: `python -m driftbuster.cli samples/multi-server/server02` (add `--json` for machine output).
- Generate a diff report with a chosen baseline: `python -m scripts.demo_multi_server --root samples/multi-server --baseline server01 --html artifacts/demo-multi-server.html`.

### Troubleshooting

- **Root validation errors** – Hover the badge for the failing path. Fix permissions or edit the root, then click **Retry validation**; the toast system also reports the OS error text.
- **Permission denied hosts** – The activity timeline logs the failure with the host ID. Use **Run missing only** after adjusting credentials or running the CLI with elevated access.
- **Missing hosts** – Disable unused slots to silence warnings. If a host disconnects mid-run, the toast will point to **Re-scan affected servers** while leaving successful outputs intact.
- **Cache clean-up** – Remove the cached diffs or session file from your DriftBuster data root (e.g. `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/cache/diffs/`, `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/sessions/multi-server.json`) to start fresh. The GUI will prompt before writing a new snapshot.

### Next Steps

- Capture annotated exports from the drilldown for handoff using the HTML/JSON buttons.
- Check in a sanitized JSON plan under `artifacts/plans/` so you can rerun the same batch later.
- Keep an eye on the activity feed for upcoming toast enhancements that annotate remediation steps directly inside the feed.

Commit message:

A6: document manual-run evidence links
Task: task_e_68fbb385fa088323811bc006a9675b71 Turn: task_e_68fbb385fa088323811bc006a9675b71~assttrn_e_68fbb386cc748323ba2894e499320432

- Linked the Dark+/Light+ GUI captures to the 2025-10-24 manual run evidence.
- Expanded ux-refresh MRU notes with release-baseline guidance and refresh cadence.
- Updated windows GUI guide with manual run context, export/timeline cross-checks, and new evidence section.
- Pointed README and multi-server walkthrough to the captured session for MRU/timeline validation.
- Indexed ux-refresh in docs overview and marked CLOUDTASKS 6.3 docs tasks complete.

docs/multi-server-demo.md, after:

## Multi-Server Orchestration Walkthrough

The multi-server flow configures up to six hosts, shares progress with live toasts, and produces catalog/drilldown exports without leaving the GUI. This guide walks through the end-to-end experience using the bundled sample data plus equivalent CLI commands so you can automate the same orchestration.

Latest release captures (see `docs/assets/themes/20250309-theme-darkplus-1600px.png` and `docs/assets/themes/20250309-theme-lightplus-1600px.png`) mirror the walkthrough recorded in `artifacts/manual-runs/2025-10-24-multi-server-notes.md`. Reference both while following these steps to confirm diff planner MRU entries and activity timeline exports line up with the documented baseline.

### Scenario Overview

- Demo dataset: `samples/multi-server/`
- Hosts: `server01` … `server06` (feel free to add more copies)
- Roots: each server folder acts as an independent root
- Baseline: `server01` ships with the expected config snapshot

### 1. Configure Hosts in the GUI

Open the desktop preview (`dotnet run --project gui/DriftBuster.Gui/DriftBuster.Gui.csproj`) and switch to the **Multi-server** tab. Each slot can point at a different root, baseline, and scope.

```
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Multi-server Tab                                                  |
|                                                                   |
| [1] Host cards      [2] Scope chips         [3] Roots list        |
|     ┌─────────┐         ┌───────────────┐      ┌───────────────┐ |
|     │ Label   │         │ Baseline ▶︎  │      │ C:\programs  │ |
|     │ Toggle  │         │ Custom ▲     │      │ D:\configs    │ |
|     └─────────┘         └───────────────┘      └───────────────┘ |
|                                                                   |
| [4] Session cache toggle     [5] Guidance footer + Run buttons   |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

Callout notes:
- **[1] Host cards** – enable a slot, edit the label, and pick a baseline preference for reruns.
- **[2] Scope chips** – switch between predefined scopes (e.g., `Program Files`, `AppData`) or stay with custom roots.
- **[3] Roots list** – add, remove, or reorder roots. Inline badges show `pending`, `ok`, or `error` as validation completes, and you can drag any host card to reorder the execution priority; baseline preference updates automatically.
- **[4] Session cache toggle** – opt-in to save labels, scopes, root order, catalog filters, timeline state, and the last active tab into your DriftBuster data root (for example `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/sessions/multi-server.json`, `$XDG_DATA_HOME/DriftBuster/sessions/...`) when you click **Save session**.
- **[5] Guidance footer** – explains why a scan is blocked (missing roots, failed validation) and surfaces **Run all** and **Run missing only** actions.

### 2. Launch and Monitor a Scan

- Click **Run all** once every active host shows a green root badge. The inline **View drilldown** button in the execution summary lets you jump straight from a host status row to the latest drilldown entry for that host.
- Progress appears next to each host. Statuses cycle through `queued`, `running`, `succeeded`, `failed`, or `skipped`.
- Toasts summarize completed runs, permission warnings, and retry hints. Open the activity timeline on the right to view a durable log of root changes, exports, and reruns.
- Successful results are cached by `(host, root, config)` so rerunning only missing hosts is instant; the view reuses existing catalog entries while new work finishes.
- Compare what you see with the Dark+ manual-run capture referenced above; the export burst and MRU dropdown should match the sanitized highlights documented in the evidence file.

### 3. Explore Results

1. **Results catalog** – shows coverage counts, drift totals, and color-tagged severity per config. Use the filter tray for coverage/severity/type, or search by config name.
2. **Drilldown** – select a catalog entry to open side-by-side and unified diffs. Toggle servers on/off from the checklist to compare subsets. Export HTML/JSON snapshots with the inline buttons.
3. **Selective reruns** – the catalog’s **Re-scan affected servers** button issues targeted plans so you can validate fresh drift without losing context.

### 3a. Persist and Restore a Session

1. Click **Save session** once every host has completed at least one run. The snapshot writes to `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/sessions/multi-server.json` (or `$XDG_DATA_HOME/DriftBuster/sessions/...` on non-Windows hosts) using the awaitable cache service introduced in `SessionCacheService`.
2. Close the GUI and relaunch it with `dotnet run --project gui/DriftBuster.Gui/DriftBuster.Gui.csproj`. The multi-server tab will repopulate host labels, scopes, root ordering, baseline preferences, catalog filters, the last selected drilldown host, and the active timeline filter.
3. Validate that Inter-font dependent controls (catalog headers, guidance footer text) render correctly. The headless bootstrapper now preloads `fonts:SystemFonts` so even Release builds hydrate the alias dictionary before multi-server views instantiate.
4. Trigger a rerun from the restored session. Cached hosts immediately report **succeeded** while the activity timeline records a **Loaded saved session** success entry ("Restored _n_ servers.") before fresh run telemetry lands for any hosts that require new work.
5. Match the restored state to the manual run evidence file to confirm MRU entries, timeline filters, and export records persisted as expected.

### 4. CLI Parity

The GUI invokes `python -m driftbuster.multi_server` with a JSON request over stdin. Try the same flow from the repo root:

```sh
python -m driftbuster.multi_server <<'JSON'
{
  "plans": [
    {
      "host_id": "server01",
      "label": "Baseline",
      "scope": "custom_roots",
      "roots": ["samples/multi-server/server01"],
      "baseline": {"is_preferred": true, "priority": 1},
      "export": {"include_catalog": true, "include_drilldown": true}
    },
    {
      "host_id": "server02",
      "label": "Drift sample",
      "scope": "custom_roots",
      "roots": ["samples/multi-server/server02"]
    }
  ]
}
JSON
```

- Progress messages stream as JSON objects with `type: "progress"`. Pipe the output through `jq` to watch updates: `python -m driftbuster.multi_server <<<"…" | jq`.
- Omit `cache_dir` to let the CLI use the same data root as the GUI. Set `DRIFTBUSTER_DATA_ROOT=/custom/path` to override where cached diffs and sessions are stored.
- To rerun only missing hosts, send a smaller plan containing the failed host IDs; cached hosts can be left out.
- Export helpers write HTML/JSON to `artifacts/exports/<config>-<timestamp>.{html,json}`. Combine with `python -m scripts.coverage_report` to summarise multi-host metrics after a batch.

### 5. Optional Single-Host CLI Recipes

- Detect and classify formats: `python -m driftbuster.cli samples/multi-server/server02` (add `--json` for machine output).
- Generate a diff report with a chosen baseline: `python -m scripts.demo_multi_server --root samples/multi-server --baseline server01 --html artifacts/demo-multi-server.html`.

### Troubleshooting

- **Root validation errors** – Hover the badge for the failing path. Fix permissions or edit the root, then click **Retry validation**; the toast system also reports the OS error text.
- **Permission denied hosts** – The activity timeline logs the failure with the host ID. Use **Run missing only** after adjusting credentials or running the CLI with elevated access.
- **Missing hosts** – Disable unused slots to silence warnings. If a host disconnects mid-run, the toast will point to **Re-scan affected servers** while leaving successful outputs intact.
- **Cache clean-up** – Remove the cached diffs or session file from your DriftBuster data root (e.g. `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/cache/diffs/`, `%LOCALAPPDATA%/DriftBuster/sessions/multi-server.json`) to start fresh. The GUI will prompt before writing a new snapshot.

### Next Steps

- Capture annotated exports from the drilldown for handoff using the HTML/JSON buttons.
- Check in a sanitized JSON plan under `artifacts/plans/` so you can rerun the same batch later.
- Keep an eye on the activity feed for upcoming toast enhancements that annotate remediation steps directly inside the feed.
