docs/registry.md, before:

Windows Registry Live Scans
===========================

Overview
--------
- Enumerates installed applications from the Uninstall registry keys.
- Guesses likely registry roots for a selected app (HKCU/HKLM software trees and Wow6432Node).
- Searches registry values under those roots using user‑provided keywords and/or regex patterns.

Usage (Python API)
------------------
- List apps: `from driftbuster.registry import enumerate_installed_apps`
- Pick targets: `find_app_registry_roots("My App", installed=apps)`
- Search: `search_registry(roots, SearchSpec(keywords=("server",), patterns=(re.compile("https://"),)))`

Notes
-----
- Read‑only; writes are not supported.
- Windows only. On non‑Windows platforms, construct a custom backend or skip.
- Traversal enforces limits: max depth, max hits, and a time budget.

CLI Helper
----------
- A lightweight helper exposes common operations from the shell (Windows only):
  - List apps: `python -m driftbuster.registry_cli list-apps`
  - Suggest roots: `python -m driftbuster.registry_cli suggest-roots "Vendor App"`
  - Search: `python -m driftbuster.registry_cli search "Vendor App" --keyword server --pattern "api\\.internal\\.local"`

SQL Snapshot Exports
--------------------
- Capture masked SQLite exports directly from the CLI:
  - `python -m driftbuster.cli export-sql samples/sqlite/sample.sqlite --mask-column accounts.secret --hash-column accounts.email`
- Run the same workflow from PowerShell:
  - `Export-DriftBusterSqlSnapshot -Database samples/sqlite/sample.sqlite -MaskColumn accounts.secret -HashColumn accounts.email`
- Exports land in `sql-exports/` by default with a `sql-manifest.json` rollup containing table lists, row counts, and column policies.

Offline Runner
--------------
- The offline collection tool can execute registry scans alongside file copies.
- Add a `registry_scan` source to `profile.sources` in your JSON config:

```
{
  "profile": {
    "name": "collect-config-and-registry",
    "sources": [
      { "path": "C:/ProgramData/VendorA/AppA" },
      {
        "alias": "vendorA-registry",
        "registry_scan": {
          "token": "VendorA AppA",
          "keywords": ["server", "api"],
          "patterns": ["https://", "api\\.internal\\.local"],
          "max_depth": 12,
          "max_hits": 200,
          "time_budget_s": 10.0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

- Results are written to `data/<alias>/registry_scan.json` and summarised in the manifest.
- Non‑Windows hosts skip registry sources, recording a clear reason in the manifest/logs.

GUI Focus (\.NET 8)
-------------------
- The GUI consumes the same packaged output and surfaces registry scan results
  beside file-based findings. It remains the primary workflow; the Python
  engine powers the collection and detection.

Commit message:

A16: Document SQL snapshot retention safeguards
Task: task_e_68f9d38fbe3c8323b153d3e2bf7a5563 Turn: task_e_68f9d38fbe3c8323b153d3e2bf7a5563~assttrn_e_68f9d39089b88323a350bf55f88f2670

- Documented SQL snapshot masking and retention safeguards for exports.
- Added retention procedures and anonymisation logging guidance to legal safeguards.
- Updated registry guide to reference logging, retention tracking, and purge steps.
- Recorded SQL snapshot approval details in the legal review checklist.
- Marked CLOUDTASKS A16.3 documentation/legal subtasks as completed.

docs/registry.md, after:

Windows Registry Live Scans
===========================

Overview
--------
- Enumerates installed applications from the Uninstall registry keys.
- Guesses likely registry roots for a selected app (HKCU/HKLM software trees and Wow6432Node).
- Searches registry values under those roots using user‑provided keywords and/or regex patterns.

Usage (Python API)
------------------
- List apps: `from driftbuster.registry import enumerate_installed_apps`
- Pick targets: `find_app_registry_roots("My App", installed=apps)`
- Search: `search_registry(roots, SearchSpec(keywords=("server",), patterns=(re.compile("https://"),)))`

Notes
-----
- Read‑only; writes are not supported.
- Windows only. On non‑Windows platforms, construct a custom backend or skip.
- Traversal enforces limits: max depth, max hits, and a time budget.

CLI Helper
----------
- A lightweight helper exposes common operations from the shell (Windows only):
  - List apps: `python -m driftbuster.registry_cli list-apps`
  - Suggest roots: `python -m driftbuster.registry_cli suggest-roots "Vendor App"`
  - Search: `python -m driftbuster.registry_cli search "Vendor App" --keyword server --pattern "api\\.internal\\.local"`

SQL Snapshot Exports
--------------------
- Capture masked SQLite exports directly from the CLI:
  - `python -m driftbuster.cli export-sql samples/sqlite/sample.sqlite --mask-column accounts.secret --hash-column accounts.email`
- Run the same workflow from PowerShell:
  - `Export-DriftBusterSqlSnapshot -Database samples/sqlite/sample.sqlite -MaskColumn accounts.secret -HashColumn accounts.email`
- Exports land in `sql-exports/` by default with a `sql-manifest.json` rollup containing table lists, row counts, and column policies.
- Record which columns were masked or hashed inside `notes/status/gui-research.md` so auditors can retrace the anonymisation steps.
- Store the masked database, manifest, and checksum bundle under a restricted directory until the retention deadline recorded in `notes/checklists/legal-review.md`.
- Follow the retention guidance in `docs/legal-safeguards.md#retention` and document purge completion when artefacts are deleted.

Offline Runner
--------------
- The offline collection tool can execute registry scans alongside file copies.
- Add a `registry_scan` source to `profile.sources` in your JSON config:

```
{
  "profile": {
    "name": "collect-config-and-registry",
    "sources": [
      { "path": "C:/ProgramData/VendorA/AppA" },
      {
        "alias": "vendorA-registry",
        "registry_scan": {
          "token": "VendorA AppA",
          "keywords": ["server", "api"],
          "patterns": ["https://", "api\\.internal\\.local"],
          "max_depth": 12,
          "max_hits": 200,
          "time_budget_s": 10.0
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

- Results are written to `data/<alias>/registry_scan.json` and summarised in the manifest.
- Non‑Windows hosts skip registry sources, recording a clear reason in the manifest/logs.

GUI Focus (\.NET 8)
-------------------
- The GUI consumes the same packaged output and surfaces registry scan results
  beside file-based findings. It remains the primary workflow; the Python
  engine powers the collection and detection.
